So, welcome to Accessors
& Memory Layout! In this video, we'll talk about how the arrow, dot, and
colon colon accessor operators work! We'll be introducing virtual memory,
introducing permanent storage, stack and heap... Heap is also known as the
free store, and how accessor operators relate to memory,
to bring it all together. And finally, we will bind another input action.
By the end of it, it's pretty simple, we will get Grabbed and Release coming up
on here, and we'll have a much better idea of why, in the code,
we access methods like this, exactly what the ampersand and the colon colon are doing. So, see you in there!
So welcome back! We've managed to get our Grab key working! What I want to do
here is talk a little bit more about the syntax right here,
where we specify the function that needs to be called. So there's a
couple of things here that we want to talk about in more detail. One is the ampersand. Although we
have already covered this, this is an address of operator. Alright,
and this BindAction() method just needs to know the address it needs to go to, to find
the function. But what do I mean by that? Well, you'll see in a minute on the next slide. I'm going to
start talking about how memory is allocated and how these accessors work. You've also got another
thing I want to clarify, which is once and for all, let's talk about when we use a colon colon,
when we use an arrow, and when we use a dot. So this should bring it all together, let's take a look!
Accessors & Memory Layout! So,
imagine the white block is a block of memory on your computer, strictly Virtual Memory.
The operating system worries about whether this stuff is in RAM or is on the harddrive
or could possibly even be in the cloud, in a future operating system, but
it's Virtual Memory. So, we are allocated a lump of memory
for our program, and that can change, you can request more but it's there, it's a wide block.
Alright, but it turns out that the memory is split basically into two. This is a massive
over-simplification. But you have permanent storage, the blue stuff
at the bottom, and this is where stuff we know, at compile time, gets stored.
Things like functions themselves or const expression, if we use that, any
data that's unchanging can get stored in the Permanent store in memory.
The top half of the memory is the Stack and the Free Store or otherwise
known as Heap, and those two things can vary. They may
start small and grow, and one may grow down in memory, one may grow up from the bottom.
We don't need to concern ourselves too much about the details of the difference between
Stack and Free Store, at the moment, or about exactly how they
grow and shrink. I just want to explain that there's a part of memory that is kind of permanent
and is laid out at compile time, and there is a part of
memory that varies at runtime, depending on what's going on OK.
Now, this ties into the Accessor operator, so I've got a table for you.
Three columns, the left-hand term is talking about say I take UGrabber
colon colon Grab or EWordStatus or std, that's what I mean by the left
hand term. So, if the left-hand term is a Class or Enum or Namespace
or other things, but we'll just leave it at that for now, then
the accessor operator you want is a colon
colon, in the example of UGrabber colon colon Grab.
So, here we go! UGrabber colon colon Grab. It is known
at compile time what the location of this is. This function
is going to be put into the Permanent Store, and it's going to stay there
throughout the running of the program. So, UGrabber colon colon Grab is a fully qualified
function name, and then, you have the ampersand which is the address of operator,
which tells this whole method, the BindAction() method where to go
in memory to find the function, where to jump to. OK, so that's what's
going on there, and that's why things that go in Permanent Storage
have a colon colon operator. The other two types of operator you use
are arrow operators for Pointers and dots for
Instances or References.  Let's look at some examples, starting from the top. So, MyGrab
.Grab(). MyGrab is as instance there of a Grab
class or Grabber class or something like that, and .Grab() is a method on it.
MyBullCowCount.Bulls we used earlier, in the previous section.
That's a struct and the .Bulls is an integer member of that struct.
Or MyGrab MyGrabRef.Grab() is very similar to the top line, it's a
reference to that method. OK, and in all those cases use a
dot, because remember, you use references you treat very much like the object itself.
So, how about the arrow operator!? Well, we use the arrow operator
when we're dealing with a pointer. So, MyGrab pointer, you know we want to access
a method called Grab() or a property called Reach. So, the bigger
picture, if we zoom out for a moment, is those those things that can vary and do vary at runtime
we access using the dot or the arrow operator,
and they loosely map over to the Stack and the Heap over there on the left.
So, hopefully that gives you a little bit more context as to when to use these different
objects. So, basically you ask yourself, look here I am inside
my IDE, and it's asking me
here, let's say for a function reference or it's got this horrible signature. But you
find by going and looking at an example code on the web that they're passing in methods,
and you see that the pattern is that people are saying UGrabber.
But then, you ask yourself well UGrabber what? Is it arrow? Is it dot? Well, these don't work
because we know the location of UGrabber::
Grab now at compile time, so you're using this static
access of this colon colon. And then, of course, we need to find the address of that, so that's
how that whole line comes about. So, hopefully that's clearer for you. Do refer back to this slide
as and when you need to, and I hope that makes things clearer. So, over to you!
I want you to create a Release() method. Follow the example of the GrabBinding().
The enum for release is IE_Released.
Log that the key has been released. When you let go of the grab key
and test, and if it works jump with joy! Go ahead, pause the video and
do that now!
Welcome back! So, very much by analogy to what we've done before, let's start in the header file,
and let's make ourselves a Release() method.
So, I don't need to... [Laughs] No, just start from scratch.
"// Called when grab
key is released". I wouldn't say key when "grab is
released". OK, and then it's just void. We don't need anything coming back right
now. Release() great! So, now let's go implement
that. Let's make the method first, void UGrabber
the class name ::Release(). And again, you see how we're using this
static accessor thing here. This is saying, we already know about UGrabber
at compile time, so we can go colon colon Release(), and
then, I'm going to do a log that is almost identical.
Simple! Now, how do we do the binding!
Well, the binding is very very much, by now, due to what we had before. Nothing wrong with cutting
and pasting code, actually saves errors. Question,
is it "Grab"? Is the action still "Grab"? Yes it is actually,
because it is the fact that the "Grab" key is IE_Released.
So, we only have a single action here, which is "Grab".
We press the key, we release the key. We operator on the same object, i.e. the Grabber,
and this time, we call Release);
This is the fully qualified
method name, i.e. this guy here, and the ampersand tells us the address of.
Wicked! Let's go and try it and see how it works for a
us! So, build! While it's building, I actually haven't got my project open right now, so I'll open the project,
and I will hope that it builds properly! Unreal is pretty good at handling this.
This thing is compiling and yet Unreal is in the middle of opening. It seems to handle all this
OK, these kind of weird like build over here while this opens, and yet this still
might notice there's been a hot reload come up, i.e. that the build has finished. It
kind of depends when Unreal opens. It's started to pick up,
I think, the fact that the compile is going on in the background,
but in this instance, I'm going to have to see in the IDE whether it's
finished, because Unreal hasn't fully hooked in. OK, let's take a look! Push
the Left Key, Grab pressed, released, Grab released. I'm not getting the released, so what's wrong?
I'm going to try hitting Compile in Unreal. It may simply
be that I opened it while it was still compiling.
Let's see! So, it's not working! Let's go back to the code and see what's
wrong!
Enumerator looks OK, because it's subtle but you can see that it is actually returning
a number, 1 for that 0 for that.
Release() is the right name, the log is different.
OK, I'm going to recompile.
So this is an interesting test case of, what do you do if you think your code should be working,
and you suspect that it's not you, it's just that the system is not working. Well,
let's see what we can do? Grab press, still not working! So,
this stage I'll be closing and and reopening Unreal, and if that doesn't work, we can do the clean that I showed
you a couple of videos ago.
There you go, it's working now! So,
what I said about it not being a problem to open Unreal, during the compilation,
it kind of turns out, in this case, it was a problem. So, you are safer not opening
the engine, in the middle of a compilation, because it looks like in some cases it can go wrong.
So, pressed and released is working both on the Left Shift and the Right Mouse Button, and we
are good to go! So, congratulations on that! Remember
the diagram, remember it's in your slides. I hope that it's useful to you, this memory diagram
here, and I'll see you in the next video!